Introduction
------------

BOPM (Blitzed Open Proxy Monitor) is an open proxy monitoring bot designed for
Bahamut and Hybrid based ircds.  The bot is designed to monitor an individual 
server (all servers on the network have to run their own bot) with a local o: 
line and monitor connections.  When a client connects to the server, BOPM will 
scan the connection for insecure proxies.  Insecure proxies are determined by 
attempting to connect the proxy back to another host (usually the IRC server in 
question).

BOPM is written ground-up in C language, concept derived from wgmon.  It
improves on wgmon with HTTP support, faster scanning (it can scan clients
simultaneously), better layout (scalability), and dnsbl support.


Requirements
------------

o An IRCd which presents connection notices in a format which BOPM
  recognises (see below).

o A host with full connectivity for all the ports you wish to scan.  i.e. is
  NOT transparently proxied -- many domestic internet connections have port 80
  transparently proxied and this produces completely unpredictable results,
  sometimes as severe as 100% of clients being K:lined!

o A unix OS with GNU Make, an ANSI C compiler, etc..  BOPM probably does
  compile and work on win32 under cygwin, but we won't support it.

o Permission from your users to portscan them for open proxies.


Compatibility
-------------

Bahamut (tested with 1.4.28 -> 1.4.34)
Hybrid (tested with 2.8/hybrid-5.3p8, ircd-hybrid-6.3 and ircd-hybrid-7)
Unreal (tested with 3.1.2 and 3.2)
Dancer (tested with 1.0.31)
Ultimate IRCD (tested with UltimateIRCd(Tsunami)-3.0(00).a22) - please
note, earlier versions of Ultimate IRCD are *not* supported

BOPM is designed for the Bahamut and Hybrid IRCds.   It is easily
suitable for any other ircd with little modification (connregex in bopm.conf).
However, if an ircd does not send IP's in a connection notice (bahamut sends
[IP]), BOPM will not be effective because the time it takes to resolve a
hostname would be a significant factor to BOPM's efficiency.

If you want to use BOPM but you don't think your ircd supports it then please
contact us.  As long as source is available for your ircd then we can almost
certainly make BOPM work with it.

Any questions regarding compatibility should be sent to the developers. If
feasible we might be able to add compatibility to multiple ircd types to the
project in the future.


Command Line Options
--------------------

-c <name>	Config name.  By default BOPM reads bopm.conf, "-c foo"
		will cause BOPM to read foo.conf.  The primary use for
		this is to run multiple BOPMs from one directory.

-d		Debug mode.  BOPM will not fork, and will write logs to stderr.
		Multiple -d increase debug level.


Operator Channel Commands
-------------------------

botnick check <host> [scanner]  -- Manually scan host for insecure proxies and output all errors.
                                   If scanner is not given, bopm will scan on all scanners.
                                   NOTE: this will NOT add a kline (or whatever) if it finds a
                                   proxy.  This is a change from 2.x.

botnick stats                   -- Output scan stats, uptime and client connection count.

botnick fdstat                  -- Output some into about file descriptors in use.

Also if several BOPMs are present in one channel they will all respond to !all,
for example !all stats (fixed in BOPM 3.1.0).


Rehashing BOPM 
--------------

A /kill to bopm will cause the process to restart, rehashing the configuration file
and ending all queued scans.


Logging
-------

Once started, BOPM logs all significant events to a file called "bopm.log"
which by default can be found at $HOME/bopm/var/bopm.log.  There is also a
config option to log all proxy scans initiated, which can be quite useful if
you receive an abuse report related to portscanning.

These log files, especially the scan log, can grow quite large.  It is
suggested that you arrange for these files to be rotated periodically.  An
example shell script is provided in the contrib/logrotate directory.  If you
prefer to use the log rotation facilities of your operating system then you
should send a USR1 signal to BOPM after moving its logfiles - this will cause
BOPM to reopen those files.


Support
-------

BOPM has a mailing list for general discussion and announcements.  CVS
commit emails are also sent there and that is also the place to mail your
patches (unless they are massive, in which case just post a URL).  You can
subscribe to this list from:

  http://lists.blitzed.org/listinfo/bopm

Also check if your question is answered on the BOPM FAQ:

  http://blitzed.org/bopm/faq.phtml

No IRC support currently exists for BOPM.  If you would like to run such a
support channel, please let us know so that we can list it here.


Compatibility Notes
-------------------

o Unreal Ircd

  For *older* versions of Unreal to work,  patches to fix the HCN connect 
  notices (found at http://www.blitzed.org/files/) must be applied.

  Unreal 3.1.3 seems to require opers to be global if they are to see
  connection notices.
    -- prince@avalon.zirc.org

  Later versions of Unreal require different user modes to be set on BOPM for
  it to see connection notices.  You will need to use

      mode = "+sc";

  in your bopm.conf.  Also later versions of Unreal no longer require patching
  as described above.
   -- prince@avalon.zirc.org

o IRCu

  IRCu does not present a banner to clients when they connect, so
  target_string, target_ip and target_port must use some other service besides
  ircd.  For those with root access to their servers, the following inetd.conf
  example is an easy fix for this:

  # BOPM proxy check string
  16667 stream  tcp nowait nobody /bin/echo echo Open Proxy Check

  target_string can then be set to "Open Proxy Check", and target_ip/target_port
  set to your IP and port 16667.

  If you don't want to do the above, you could use any other service on
  your machine that presents a banner.  We would recommend against using
  port 25 because it is common for providers to transparently proxy port
  25.

  Also, to see connect notices, your bopm should set itself umode "+s +16384".
  There is a config file item for setting umodes.


Credits
-------

Please see the CREDITS file.
